---
date: 2014-11-21T14:40:08+08:00
layout: post
title: Lombok 简化Java代码
thread: 1
categories: Java
tags: 开源 工具
---




##Lombok(Spice up your java)

Lombok最终目标是减少编码，使程序更为简洁。提供如下注解：  
`@Getter` 和` @Setter`: 为你的字段创建getter和setter  
`@EqualsAndHashCode`: 实现equals()和hashCode()  
`@ToString`: 实现toString()  
`@Data`: 使用上面四个注解的特征  
`@Cleanup`: 关闭流  
`@Synchronized`: 对象上同步  
`@SneakyThrows`: 抛出异常  

##原理
Lombok采用Hook直接在编译过程中根据注解生成代码。同时也可以Hook到Eclipse，Idea的编译过程，以插件的方式实现。

##扩展Lombok
Extending Lombok is a 3-step process:

- Create the annotation. Since the annotation is used at compile-time, it can be safely be discarded afterwards so its retention policy can be left to its default value (namely RetentionPolicy.SOURCE)
- Create the handler. A handler is a class that directly implements lombok.javac.JavacAnnotationHandler<T extends Annotation>. Why directly? Because Lombok uses the ServiceProvider service and it’s one of its limitations
- Reference the fully qualified class name of the handler in a file named lombok.javac.JavacAnnotationHandler under META-INF/services

The real coding takes place in step 2: the interface has a single method handle(AnnotationValues<T> annotation, com.sun.tools.javac.tree.JCTree.JCAnnotation ast, JavacNode annotationNode). Notice the 2nd parameter package? It’s denotes Sun private implementation. It has some big drawbacks:

- The documentation is sparse if not completely unavailable. You go into unknown territory here
- Since the com.sun.tools.javac is not part of the public API, it can change at a moment’s notice. You can break your code with each update
- Remember that previously, I talked about this being only good for Java? That’s still true. If you want this new annotation to work under Eclipse, that’s another handler to write

__Sample__：http://java.dzone.com/articles/lombok-reduces-your

##To go further:
- [Project Lombok](http://projectlombok.org/)  
- [GitHub](https://github.com/rzwitserloot/lombok)  
- [Lombok features](http://projectlombok.org/features/index.html)
- [Lombok Reduces Your Boilerplate Code](http://java.dzone.com/articles/lombok-reduces-your)
